{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red13\green13\blue13;\red17\green17\blue17;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue233;\red38\green38\blue38;\red13\green13\blue13;\red12\green12\blue12;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c5098\c5098\c5098;\csgenericrgb\c6667\c6667\c6667;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c5882\c5882\c5882;\cssrgb\c5098\c5098\c5098;}
\vieww30040\viewh18900\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs108 \cf0 Leveraging ChatGPT in Software Engineering\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf0 Prepared by: John Businge\
john.businge@unlv.edu\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\fs56 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs88 \cf2 Introduction to ChatGPT
\f0\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\fs56 \cf3 A powerful language model developed by OpenAI\
GPT - Generative Pre-trained Transformer models\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf2 GPT-2, GPT-3, GPT-3.5, GPT-4\
BERT\
T5\
RoBERTa\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\fs56 \cf2 Has capabilities in understanding and generating human-like text based on input prompts.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs80 \cf0 Objectives of Leveraging ChatGPT in Team projects\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs52 \cf0 Enhancing Problem-Solving Skills: 
\f0\b0 Utilize ChatGPT for complex problem-solving tasks.\

\f2\b Improving Code Quality
\f0\b0 : Enhance code readability and efficiency with ChatGPT insights.\

\f2\b Promoting Creativity
\f0\b0 : Inspire innovative solutions and approaches in project development.\

\f2\b Preparing for Industry Tools
\f0\b0 : Familiarize students with AI-powered tools for future careers.\

\f2\b Encouraging Collaboration: 
\f0\b0 Foster teamwork through shared problem-solving with ChatGPT.\

\f2\b Providing Real-World Experience
\f0\b0 : Simulate industry scenarios for practical learning.\

\f2\b Gather insights
\f0\b0 :  Continuously refine curriculum based on student experiences and repository data for better learning outcomes in future classes.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs72 \cf0 What SE Tasks have been addressed to date using LLM4SE\
What SE Tasks have been addressed to date using LLM4SE\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hou et al. LLMs for SE: A Systematic Literature Review
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf4 \'95{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10620.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf5 \ul \ulc5 https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10620.pdf}}
\f0  
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \'95
\f0 Analyzed 229 research papers on the subject
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \'95
\f0 Read Section 6 of the paper to find which papers have addressed the SE tasks.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs56 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs72 \cf0 How are developers using LLMs to solve SE tasks?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs74\fsmilli37333 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'95
\f0 \cf6 In instances where developers have incorporated the code provided by ChatGPT into their projects, to what extent do they modify this code prior to use?
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs58\fsmilli29333 \cf4 \'95
\f0 We carried out an investigation of\'a0 108 Pull requests from 83 repositories. 
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs58\fsmilli29333 \'95
\f0 All the 83 repositories are from real software engineering projects since we filtered out experimental projects
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs56 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs88 \cf0 Results\
Ownership of AI generated code\
Ownership of AI generated code\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
These two cases are are representative of those instances in which the contributor explicitly states to be unsure about what was accomplished using ChatGPT\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs64 \cf4 In your team project you should define guidelines for projects\'92 contributions including AI-generated code, 
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs48 \cf4 \'95
\f0 e.g., you may decide to only welcome AI-generated code from users that are confident in assessing the correctness of the contributed code.
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs48 \'95
\f0 Conduct a thorough peer reviews on code suggested by LLMs
\f3\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs88 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 LLM Hallucination\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs48 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'95
\f3 \cf7 While large language models can generate fluent and coherent text on various topics and domains, they are also prone to just "make stuff up". Plausible sounding nonsense!
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs74\fsmilli37333 \cf4 What 
\f3\fs48 \cf7 Deviation from facts or contextual logic
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf4 \'95
\f3 \cf7 Minor inconsistences
\fs24 \cf4 \

\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \'95
\f3 \cf7 Completely fabricated
\fs24 \cf4 \

\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \'95
\f3 \cf7 Contradicting statements 
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs74\fsmilli37333 \cf4 Why
\f3\fs24  
\fs48 \cf7 Data quality
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf4 \'95
\f3 \cf7 Trained on internet data
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf4 \'95
\f3 \cf7 E.g., Reddit and Wikipedia, right?
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf4 \'95
\f4 Semantically, LLMs have no idea what its saying. 
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \'95
\f4 They are just doing Math.\'a0
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \'95
\f4 Factually, it can occasionally make errors
\f3 \cf7 .
\fs24 \cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs74\fsmilli37333 \cf4 Minimize
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf7 Clear and specific prompts
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs48 \cf4 \'95
\f0 Structured prompting
\f3\fs24 \

\f0\fs48 Role-based prompting
\f3\fs24  
\f0\fs88 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 LLM Hallucination \'96 What and Why\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In modern development, ChatGPT's pre-2021 training restricts its understanding, resulting in speculative or inaccurate responses ("hallucinations") regarding newer technologies like Module Federation.
\fs88 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 LLM Hallucination \'96 What and Why\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ChatGPT hallucinated in this context because it lacks real-time awareness and understanding of the specific problem being discussed. The suggestions were based on general patterns or associations it learned from its training data, rather than a precise understanding of the developers' current task or the relevance of the library to the issue at hand.
\f3\fs24 \

\f0\fs48 Developers should avoid relying solely on ChatGPT for guidance on cutting-edge or domain-specific topics beyond its training data, especially in rapidly evolving fields like software development. Instead, they should verify ChatGPT's suggestions with up-to-date sources or with domain experts to ensure accuracy and relevance.
\fs88 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 LLM Hallucination \'96 Minimize\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs85\fsmilli42667 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Structured or Role-based Prompting
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs64 \cf4 You are a senior software engineer tasked with \{specific task\}. You will be provided with \{relevant details\}, including the source code of \{related files\}. Your objective is to \{describe the task in detail\}.
\f3\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs64 \cf8 Project Description: \{Provide a brief overview of the project and its context\} 
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \

\f0\fs64 \cf8 Issue Description: \{Describe the specific problem or task you need to address\} 
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \

\f0\fs64 \cf8 \{Source Code: Include any relevant code snippets or files\}
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \
\

\f0\fs64 \cf8 Please address the task based on your expertise and understanding, ensuring that the solution is robust and well-documented. Provide the updated source code along with detailed comments explaining your approach and any modifications made.
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs88 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
LLM Hallucination \'96 Minimize\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs85\fsmilli42667 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Structured or Role-based Prompting - Example
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf8 You are a senior software engineer tasked with optimizing the performance of a web application. You will be provided with the relevant codebase, including the source files for the frontend and backend components. Your objective is to identify and implement optimizations to enhance the application's speed and efficiency.
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \
\

\f0\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf8 Project Description: The web application is an e-commerce platform built with React for the frontend and Node.js for the backend. It allows users to browse products, add them to cart, and proceed to checkout. The application is experiencing slow load times and occasional server timeouts during peak traffic hours.
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \
\

\f0\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf8 Issue Description: The main performance bottlenecks are observed during database queries and rendering of large product catalogs. Additionally, some API endpoints are experiencing latency issues, impacting the overall responsiveness of the application.
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \
\

\f0\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf8 Source Code: 
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \

\f0\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf8 Frontend: [link to frontend repository or relevant files] 
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \

\f0\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf8 Backend: [link to backend repository or relevant files]
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \
\

\f0\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf8 Please address the task based on your expertise and understanding, ensuring that the solution is robust and well-documented. Provide the updated source code along with detailed comments explaining your approach and any modifications made.
\f3\fs24 \cf4  
\f0\fs88 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Challenges of Using ChatGPT\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs64 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'95
\f0 Understanding ChatGPT's capabilities and limitations \'96 hallucinations
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs48 \cf4 \'95
\f0 You may struggle to discern when to rely on ChatGPT versus traditional problem-solving methods.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs64 \cf4 \'95
\f0 Interpreting and implementing ChatGPT suggestions effectively
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs48 \cf4 \'95
\f0 This requires not only comprehending the suggestions but also ensuring they align with the project requirements and best practices.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs64 \cf4 \'95
\f0 Overreliance on ChatGPT: You may become overly reliant on ChatGPT as a solution-finding tool.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs48 \cf4 \'95
\f0 leading reduced critical thinking skills.
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs64 \cf4 \'95
\f0 Limited Understanding of Software Engineering Concepts:
\f3\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf4 You may lack the foundational knowledge and understanding of key concepts, making it challenging to formulate precise queries or evaluate ChatGPT's responses effectively
\f3\fs24  
\f0\fs88 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs60 \cf0 Fostering Collaboration to Mitigate Challenges with ChatGPT\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'95
\f0 \cf8 Understanding and Interpreting Responses: Collaborating with peers allows students to discuss and compare interpretations of ChatGPT-generated responses, facilitating clearer understanding.
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \

\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 \'95
\f0 \cf8 Dependency on Training Data: Diverse peer backgrounds supplement ChatGPT's responses with additional insights, compensating for training data gaps.
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \

\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 \'95
\f0 \cf8 Quality and Accuracy of Responses: Peer collaboration enables validation of response quality and accuracy, identifying errors or inaccuracies collectively.
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \

\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 \'95
\f0 \cf8 Limited Understanding of Software Engineering Concepts: Peer support fills knowledge gaps collaboratively, clarifying concepts and refining queries.
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \

\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 \'95
\f0 \cf8 Overreliance on ChatGPT: Collaboration encourages a balanced problem-solving approach, avoiding overreliance and developing critical thinking skills.
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \

\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 \'95
\f0 \cf8 Integration with Existing Workflows: Peer sharing of best practices and technical expertise aids in effectively integrating ChatGPT into existing workflows.
\f3\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs60 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs56 \cf0 \
}