---
title: "CS 473 - Software Product Design and Development II"
collection: teaching
permalink: /teaching/CS473-Fall2022/
venue: "University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Commputer Science"
date: 2022-01-09
location: "Las Vegas, Nevada"
---
<a><button name="button" style = "color: blue" onclick="/teaching/CS473-Fall2022/msr">Introduction</button></a>
<a><button name="button" style = "color: blue" onclick="/teaching/CS473-Fall2022/metrics_and_visualization">Metrics and Visualization</button></a>
<a><button name="button" style = "color: blue" onclick="/teaching/CS473-Fall2022/refactoring_assistants">Refactoring assistants</button></a>
<a><button name="button" style = "color: blue" onclick="/teaching/CS473-Fall2022/software_integration">Software Integration</a>
<a><button name="button" style = "color: blue" onclick="/teaching/CS473-Fall2022/dynamic_analysis_testing">Dynamic Analysis: Testing</button></a>
<a><button name="button" style = "color: blue" onclick="/teaching/CS473-Fall2022/msr">MSR</button></a>
<a><button name="button" style = "color: blue" onclick="/teaching/CS473-Fall2022/sre_project">Project</button></a>


Practical
=========
Who ?
* Master Computer Science Period: 1st semester 2022-2023

Where ? When ?
* Theory & Exercises all during the same time slot
* Time: 
* Location: 

Course Description
======
Synthesis (term project) course to involve students, working in teams, in all of the activities necessary to define, 
model, implement, test, document, and deliver a program product. Students practice Object-Oriented and 
Component Based development and utilize UML and CASE tools to model the product and document the process.

Course Content
=====
This course explains the 'state-of-the-art' changing an existing software systems. This includes an introduction 
to the recent research, as well as an overview of the principles techniques and skills applied in practice today. 
Students will acquire a range of principles, techniques, and skills that are currently being used for changing an
existing software systems. Consequently, the **course has a practical ring to it with a minimal theoretical content**
(taught as reengineering patterns), several lab-sessions (experimenting with a suite of reengineering tools) and
one project (restructuring an existing large software system).



Objectives (expected learning outcomes)
======
To goal of this course is to become acquainted with a broad selection of principles, techniques and skills used when changing existing software systems. After this course, a student will be able to:
* assess which parts should be reengineered first;
* identify the risks and opportunities for a given re-engineering project;
* extract coarse-grained and fine-grained design models;
* exploit tests during program change;
* select the most appropriate integration strategy;
* solve the typical problems of an object-oriented re-engineering project.

Time schedule
=======
To realize these objectives, the course is organized as follows. We start with an introductory class outlining 
the state of the art in re-engineering and proceed with a couple of lab sessions (marked with [L] in the detailed 
time-schedule), in which several reverse and re-engineering tools will be tested under lab conditions. 
Afterward, students will experiment with these tools and the associated techniques in realistic circumstances by 
means of a Project, which will also serve as the main outcome.

Milestones
==========

* **Announce Project**: At the outset of the project, students should announce which software system they intend to reengineer (yes, you can propose one yourself) and whether they intend to do so individually or in groups (duo projects are encouraged).
* **Precondition Report - Project Setup**. When announcing the project, students should demonstrate that they meet the necessary pre-condition to start the project. They need to have a Git repository for their project and also show the ability to successfully build the project.
* **Intermediate Report - Tool Usage**: One third into the project, each group should hand in a status report containing screenshots of the tools applied on the project, and interpretations about these results.
* **Concluding Session**: Two thirds into the project, there is a concluding session, where we will reflect on the lessons learned during the project.
* **Final Report**: During the exam period you hand in a final report, listing the solutions for the problems you came across and what you learned from them. You will defend this report orally.

Below is the detailed time-schedule, which is subject to change. Changes will be notified over e-mail. [Last modified on August, 11th, 2022.] 

<table border="0.5">
<tr>
<th>Week</th>
<th>Date</th>
<th>Class Topic</th>
<th>Date</th>
<th>Class Topic</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>01</td>
<td></td>
<td>[T] Class overview 
</td><td> </td>
<td>[T] Introduction </td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>02</td>
<td> </td>
<td>[L] Metrics and Visualization 1 </td>
<td> </td>
<td>[L] Metrics and Visualization 2 </td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>03</td>
<td> </td>
<td>[L] Refactoring assistants 1 </td>
<td> </td>
<td>[L] Refactoring assistants 2 </td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>04</td>
<td> </td>
<td>[L] Software Integration  1 </td>
<td> </td>
<td>[L] Software Integration 2 </td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>05</td>
<td> </td>
<td>[L] Dynamic Analysis: Testing 1 </td>
<td> </td>
<td>[L] Dynamic Analysis: Testing 2 </td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td>06</td>
<td> </td>
<td>[L] Mining Software Repositories  1 </td>
<td> </td>
<td>[L] Mining Software Repositories 2 <br> >> hand out assignment here </td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td>07</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work<br> [Milestone 0] Groups Assembled + Precondition report </td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>08</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>09</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work <br> [Milestone 1] Report on usage of tools</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work <br> [Milestone 2] Feedback session</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work</td>
<td> </td>
<td>Free project Work</td>
</tr>

</table>


Course Material
=======
All students should have read the following book; acquiring the terminology inside is required to write the final project report.
* [Serge Demeyer, Stephane Ducasse, and Oscar Nierstrasz. Object-Oriented Reengineering Patterns. Morgan Kaufmann, 2002.](http://scg.unibe.ch/download/oorp/)
  * The original edition is available in the library of the University of Antwerp. It was published by Morgan Kaufmann in 2003, and is now out-of-print. 
* Alternatively, there is a publicly available PDF ([under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/))
* A copy of the slides of the [introductory lecture]()

For the lab sessions there is the following material (please only get the materials after it is updated to the current year):

1. [Metrics and Visualization]() (Updated 2022-08-16)
2. [Refactoring assistants]() (Updated 2022-08-16)
3. [Software Integration]() (Updated 2022-08-16)
4. [Dynamic Analysis: Testing]() (Updated 2022-08-16)
5. [Mining Software Repositories]() (Updated 2022-08-16)

Project
======

To demonstrate that you indeed acquired the range of principles, techniques, and skills that are currently being 
used for changing a project students must restructure an existing software system to prepare for a given suite of 
new requirements. Note, that the extra functionality as such needs not be implemented; but that the existing 
design must be adjusted in such a way that adding the new functionality becomes a proverbial "piece of cake".

Project: Assignment 2022
===============

Milestones
* Thursday 24-Sept-2022 - 11h59 pm - Project Definition & Group Assembly & Precondition Report: Confirm your project (standard or custom) and group members by e-mail to John Businge with: (please check the details on the subject and message content in the Assignment page). Include a precondition report, details of this report to follow on the [project page]().
* Thursday 21-Apr-2022 - 11h59 pm - Intermediate Report - Tool Usage: Send the Intermediate Report (in PDF format) by e-mail to Dr. John Businge.
* Wednesday 25th-May-2022 11h59pm (**Date confirmed**; one week before the oral exam) - Final Report: Send the Report (in PDF format) by e-mail to Dr. John Businge.
* The oral exams themselves are scheduled on XXX Date to be confirmed XXX. See the detailed schedule below

Group Work
========
It is possible (even encouraged) to work out the assignment in a group, but such a group will preferably not 
consist of more than three individuals. Of course, the expectations towards the end result of such a project 
are related to the size of the group. Also, remember that all members of the group will be given the same 
grade (report-wise).

Exam
========
The end result of this project consists of a written project report that needs to be elaborated upon during 
an oral project defense. Emphasis is on the solutions for the problems you came across and what you learned 
from them. Everything you claim in your project report must be backed up during the defense, using code and 
electronic documentation. The actual exam (= oral defense) takes place during the regular exam period and is 
scheduled accordingly. The report needs to be handed in a week beforehand electronically.

Guidelines for the Intermediate Report - Tool Usage
========
This report should be concise and to the point; its main purpose is to demonstrate that you have had personal 
hands-on experience with the tool suite explored in the lab sessions.

For each tool

* show at least one screen-dump with the results of applying the tool on the project
* provide brief interpretations (telegram style) of what you observe and what actions you would consider
* give estimations on when your tasks will be completed

Guidelines for the Final Report
============
* Short summary (Who, What, How): Who are the target users? What was the problem? How did we go about things?
* Status: What did you do, and what is (possibly) going to happen next?
* Which techniques and reengineering patterns did you use during requirements analysis, design, implementation, and testing. How did you identify the differences between the old requirements and the new ones, the old design and the new one? How did you transform the existing code into the new code? How did you ensure these restructurings did not introduce any errors?
* Project process: Overview of planning, time schedule, and intermediary problems.

In the project report and during the project defense you should express yourself using the right terminology. (cfr . [Serge Demeyer, Stephane Ducasse, and Oscar Nierstrasz. Object-Oriented Reengineering Patterns. Morgan Kaufmann, 2002](http://scg.unibe.ch/download/oorp/)).

Evaluation Criteria
============

A. PRECONDITIONS: You have to meet the following entry criteria; if you don't your project report will be discarded without evaluation
 * You have submitted the Intermediate Report on Tool Usage on time
 * You did not copy other students work (we do check for plagiarism)

B.  SELECTION: In order to receive a passing grade (MINIMUM NORM), you have to show that you are at least capable of restructuring an existing software system.
 * You can extract the existing design from the available data (i.e. reverse engineering)
 * You can transform the existing source code so that it is more fit to implement the new requirements (i.e. refactoring)
 * You can demonstrate that the code transformations have not affected the existing functionality (i.e. regression tests)
 
C. DIVERSIFICATION: To do better than a passing grade, you have to show that you have control over the restructuring process.
 * Which techniques (re-engineering patterns) did you use for the different phases? To what extent are you able to back up your choice?
 * How did you analyze the new requirements? To what extent will you be able to maintain control over future changing requirements?
 * How did you validate the design (architecture) that you extracted from the source code? How did you use this design to identify potential problems?
 * How did you handle the code transformation itself? Why will these transformations help to implement the new functionality which is to be added?
 * How did you check on the quality of your test procedure? To what extent are you able to justify the amount of time you put into the testing, related to the existing functionality and the improvements that were made?
 * How did you handle the restructuring process itself? How accurate were your planning and estimation? How did you react to unanticipated circumstances?

The following check-list will be used to assess your reengineering project
* Checklist reengineering Pre-conditions Report [ PDF ](../../files/spdd/Pre-conditions_Report_Evaluation_Template.pdf)
* Checklist reengineering Intermediate Report [ PDF ](../../files/spdd/Intermetdiate_Evaluation_Report_Template.pdf)
* Checklist reengineering Final Report [PDF](../../files/spdd/Final_Report_Evaluation_Form_Blank.pdf)

Detailed exam schedule (Last modified on Monday, -)
===========
Below is the detailed schedule for the oral exam (i.e. discussing the project report and your individual role in the project). 
If you see your name is missing, or if you spot any other mistakes, please contact Dr. John Businge immediately.

* Exams in room - (office Dr. John Businge)
* To be determined




